---
title: 'You have apps and I have phones, let''s MeetUp!'
date: Sat, 10 Nov 2012 15:09:49 +0000
draft: false
tags: ['giveaway', 'Nokia official']
---

If you're going to be in the Boston area on Thursday December 6th, come on over to Microsoft Research & Development in Cambridge (NERD). I'm doing a 90 minute group explaining how Nokia's new developer program [(DVLUP)](http://nokiawpdev.wordpress.com/2012/11/06/level-up-with-dvlup/) works and what it can do for you. I'll also be introducing you to other the new stuff Nokia is providing for developers, most of it unprecedented and groundbreaking. Nokia fully believes in the fact that if you give developers the tools and resources, they will produce amazing apps.

Right now DVLUP is in a private, invite only, beta. However, if you come to the meetup, I'll give you a code on the spot. If you don't have a developer account yet, I can help you there as well. If you show me a completed Windows Phone app, ready to publish, I will cover your first year's Dev Center fee! That will let you developer unlock your phone and publish your app to the Microsoft App Store. That's just one example of some of the amazing ways Nokia can get you started. Come to the Meetup to learn about the rest.

I will be providing food and refreshments. Oh, and one more little thing... **I will be giving away a Nokia Lumia Windows Phone**! Yep, I'll be raffling off a Nokia Lumia 900 at the event and give you the chance to earn one. It's super easy to get a free phone from me, come to the Meetup to learn how to do that.

**Space is limited, [so RSVP now](http://www.meetup.com/bostonmobiledev/events/90584522/ "Meetup").** you'll find all the information about the event at that link  If you have any questions in general, fell free to email me at **Nokia-WpDev (at) Outllook (dot) com**. I hope to see you there!