---
title: 'Nokia Lumia 822 and Lumia 800 giveaway [winner!]'
date: Mon, 20 May 2013 17:22:51 +0000
draft: false
tags: ['giveaway', 'lumia', 'lumia 800', 'lumia 822', 'mobile', 'nokia', 'technology', 'tile sizes', 'windows phone', 'wp8dev', 'wpdev']
---

\[UPDATE\] We have a winner!
----------------------------

Thank you to everyone who worked so hard to get their first app in the Windows Phone Store! Keep it up, as I have many more contests coming up. Update your app entry with a new feature, or optimize it's layout, to get the app ready for my next contest ;)

Now, without further ado, the winner of the June giveaway... drum roll... **Richard Huang of Boston, MA**. [Here is a link](http://www.windowsphone.com/en-us/store/app/languages-on-the-go/920df3b0-dcd2-4f36-b913-e342f1c37d32) to his Windows Phone app entry for the drawing. To everyone else who didn't enter, if you're a developer who fits the qualifications below, email me to get a head start on my next giveaway.

Original post
-------------

I am giving away a Lumia 822 to a lucky Windows Phone Developer and a Lumia 800 to _every_ developer where their entry is a first app.

The rules are simple:

*   You have published a new Windows Phone app (since January 1st 2013), quality requirements apply\*
*   You have not won a Windows Phone 8 device from me yet
*   You’re a member of Nokia’s [http://Dvlup.com](http://dvlup.com/) (Go to [http://Dvlup.com](http://Dvlup.com) and register if you don't have one yet)
*   You live in Massachusetts, Virginia, Illinois, Ohio, Rhode Island, Connecticut, New Hampshire, Vermont, Maine and Indiana
*   To qualify for the Lumia 800, it has to be your first published app in the past 12 months.

If you meet these conditions, send the following information to **ext-lance.mccarthy (at) Nokia.com**:

*   The URL to your app and the date it was published
*   Your Windows Phone publisher name
*   Your DVLUP username
*   Your location (City, State)

Once I verify your info, I will add you to the list and randomly draw a winner on **Sunday, June 23rd**.

If you do not have a DevCenter account, send me the finished app and **_I will give you a DevCenter account_**.

Ready, Set, CODE!

Lance

Fine Print: This contest is held by me and I reserve the right to change the rules if it is found to be unfair. Decision is final unless the winner explicitly passes on the prize or is found to be ineligible.

\*Quality requirement: The app cannot be a flashlight app or a one page RSS reader (unless it implements a special feature like speech) and must follow the Windows Phone UI design. You need to also leverage the three different live tile sizes.